INSTALL.md, before:

Installing LiveBlog
============================

+ [prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [debian/ubuntu](#debian-7-or-ubuntu-1204-1210)
    - [redhat/centos](#redhatcentos)
    - [arch/manjaro](#archlinux-or-manjaro)
    - [win7/win8](#win7-or-win8)    
+ [Installing LiveBlog](#installing-liveblog-1)
+ [Configuring LiveBlog](#configuring-liveblog)
+ [Running LiveBlog](#running-liveblog)


## Prerequisites


### Debian 7 or Ubuntu 12.04, 12.10

1. Install necessary software:

        $ sudo apt-get install exiv2 ffmpeg graphicsmagick python3 git

        
### Newer versions of ubuntu/debian which are not shipped with python 3.2

1. Install necessary software:

        $ sudo apt-get install exiv2 ffmpeg graphicsmagick git

2. Build and install python 3.2 (better create a package if you know how)

        $ cd /tmp
        $ wget http://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.2/Python-3.2.tgz
        $ tar xf ./Python-3.2.tgz
        $ cd ./Python-3.2
        $ ./configure --prefix=/opt/python32
        $ make
        $ sudo make install  # or 'sudo checkinstall' to automatically generate a package
        
        
### Redhat/Centos

1. Add repositories for ffmpeg and GraphicsMagick:

        # rpm -Uvh http://pkgs.repoforge.org/rpmforge-release/rpmforge-release-0.5.3-1.el6.rf.x86_64.rpm 
        # rpm --import http://apt.sw.be/RPM-GPG-KEY.dag.txt
        # rpm -Uvh http://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/6/x86_64/epel-release-6-8.noarch.rpm
        # rpm --import https://fedoraproject.org/static/0608B895.txt

2. Install necessary software:

        # yum groupinstall "Development tools"
        # yum install exiv2 ffmpeg GraphicsMagick zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel tk-devel

3. Build and install python 3.2

        $ cd /tmp
        $ wget http://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.2/Python-3.2.tgz
        $ tar xf ./Python-3.2.tgz
        $ cd ./Python-3.2
        $ ./configure --prefix=/opt/python32
        $ make
        $ sudo make install  # or 'sudo checkinstall' to automatically generate a package

        
        
### Archlinux or Manjaro

1. Install necessary software:

        $ yaourt -S exiv2 ffmpeg graphicsmagick python32 git

        
        
### Win

1. Install necessary software
   Download and install the tools from the following addresses:
        ffmpeg: http://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html
        exiv2: http://www.exiv2.org/download.html
        gm: http://www.graphicsmagick.org/INSTALL-windows.html
        
2. Install python 3.2
   Download and install the right version from the following address:
        https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.2


        
## Installing LiveBlog

1. Change to the directory you choose to install the application and clone Ally-Py's master branch there.

        $ git clone https://github.com/sourcefabric/Ally-Py.git -b master ally-py
        
   Notes: 
        Depending by your OS you can choose a different location to install the application like /opt, c:\, etc.
        
2. Change to ally-py directory and clone LiveBlog's master branch there.

        $ cd ./ally-py
        $ git clone https://github.com/superdesk/Live-Blog.git -b master live-blog

3. Change to live-blog directory and build eggs by running the following command:

        $ cd ./live-blog
        $ ./build-eggs 
        (build-eggs.bat on win)

4. Change to distribution directory and create the configuration files by running the following command:

        $ cd ./distribution
        $ python3.2 ./application.py -dump

5. Update the full paths to ffmpeg/exiv2/gm tools in plugins.properties configuration file.
   Here are the properties that should be changes and default values:
   
        thumbnailProcessor.ThumbnailProcessorGM.gm_path: /usr/bin/gm
        imageDataHandler.metadata_extractor_path: /usr/bin/exiv2
        audioDataHandler.ffmpeg_path: /usr/bin/ffmpeg
        videoDataHandler.ffmpeg_path: /usr/bin/ffmpeg
        
        

## Configuring LiveBlog

#### Access from the Internet
In order to access the application from other machines the following changes need to be done:

1. Edit the application.properties file, search for
   the property 'server_host' and change it to '0.0.0.0'
   E.g.: server_host: 0.0.0.0

2. Edit the application.properties configuration file, search for the
   properties 'server_url' and 'embed_server_url' and change them to
   '[machine_name_or_ip]:8080
   E.g.: server_url: my.machine.domain.com:8080



## Running LiveBlog

1. Run Ally-Py REST server:

        $ python3.2 ./application.py
        
   As a developer you can run the application from sources by running the following command:
        $ cd ..
        $ ./start-sources.sh
        (start-sources.bat on win)


2. Log in to following URL in your browser using credentials `admin/a`:

        http://localhost:8080/content/lib/core/start.html

   And here is an embed example:

        http://localhost:8080/content/lib/livedesk-embed/index.html?theme=default&id=1

Commit message:

LB-1671 : Check installation on win
Added some minor changes on win related installation

INSTALL.md, after:

Installing LiveBlog
============================

+ [prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [debian/ubuntu](#debian-7-or-ubuntu-1204-1210)
    - [redhat/centos](#redhatcentos)
    - [arch/manjaro](#archlinux-or-manjaro)
    - [win7/win8](#win7-or-win8)    
+ [Installing LiveBlog](#installing-liveblog-1)
+ [Configuring LiveBlog](#configuring-liveblog)
+ [Running LiveBlog](#running-liveblog)


## Prerequisites


### Debian 7 or Ubuntu 12.04, 12.10

1. Install necessary software:

        $ sudo apt-get install exiv2 ffmpeg graphicsmagick python3 git

        
### Newer versions of ubuntu/debian which are not shipped with python 3.2

1. Install necessary software:

        $ sudo apt-get install exiv2 ffmpeg graphicsmagick git

2. Build and install python 3.2 (better create a package if you know how)

        $ cd /tmp
        $ wget http://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.2/Python-3.2.tgz
        $ tar xf ./Python-3.2.tgz
        $ cd ./Python-3.2
        $ ./configure --prefix=/opt/python32
        $ make
        $ sudo make install  # or 'sudo checkinstall' to automatically generate a package
        
        
### Redhat/Centos

1. Add repositories for ffmpeg and GraphicsMagick:

        # rpm -Uvh http://pkgs.repoforge.org/rpmforge-release/rpmforge-release-0.5.3-1.el6.rf.x86_64.rpm 
        # rpm --import http://apt.sw.be/RPM-GPG-KEY.dag.txt
        # rpm -Uvh http://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/6/x86_64/epel-release-6-8.noarch.rpm
        # rpm --import https://fedoraproject.org/static/0608B895.txt

2. Install necessary software:

        # yum groupinstall "Development tools"
        # yum install exiv2 ffmpeg GraphicsMagick zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel tk-devel

3. Build and install python 3.2

        $ cd /tmp
        $ wget http://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.2/Python-3.2.tgz
        $ tar xf ./Python-3.2.tgz
        $ cd ./Python-3.2
        $ ./configure --prefix=/opt/python32
        $ make
        $ sudo make install  # or 'sudo checkinstall' to automatically generate a package

        
        
### Archlinux or Manjaro

1. Install necessary software:

        $ yaourt -S exiv2 ffmpeg graphicsmagick python32 git

        
        
### Win

1. Install necessary software
   Download and install the tools from the following addresses:
        ffmpeg: http://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html
        exiv2: http://www.exiv2.org/download.html
        gm: http://www.graphicsmagick.org/INSTALL-windows.html
        
2. Install python 3.2
   Download and install the right version from the following address:
        https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.2


        
## Installing LiveBlog
The folowing installation steps in generally are applicable to all OSs and any exception is specified.

1. Change to the directory you choose to install the application and clone Ally-Py's master branch there.

        git clone https://github.com/sourcefabric/Ally-Py.git -b master ally-py
        
   Note: 
        Depending by your OS you can choose a different location to install the application like /opt, c:\, etc.
        
2. Change to ally-py directory and clone LiveBlog's master branch there.

        cd ally-py
        git clone https://github.com/superdesk/Live-Blog.git -b master live-blog

3. Change to live-blog directory and build eggs by running the following command:

        cd live-blog
        ./build-eggs 
        (build-eggs.bat for win7/8)

4. Change to distribution directory and create the configuration files by running the following command:

        cd distribution
        python3.2 ./application.py -dump
        (python3.2 application.py -dump for win7/8)

5. Update the full paths to ffmpeg/exiv2/gm tools in plugins.properties configuration file.
   Here are the properties that should be changes and default values:
   
        thumbnailProcessor.ThumbnailProcessorGM.gm_path: /usr/bin/gm
        imageDataHandler.metadata_extractor_path: /usr/bin/exiv2
        audioDataHandler.ffmpeg_path: /usr/bin/ffmpeg
        videoDataHandler.ffmpeg_path: /usr/bin/ffmpeg
        
        

## Configuring LiveBlog

#### Access from the Internet
In order to access the application from other machines the following changes need to be done:

1. Edit the application.properties file, search for
   the property 'server_host' and change it to '0.0.0.0'
   E.g.: server_host: 0.0.0.0

2. Edit the application.properties configuration file, search for the
   properties 'server_url' and 'embed_server_url' and change them to
   '[machine_name_or_ip]:8080
   E.g.: server_url: my.machine.domain.com:8080



## Running LiveBlog
The folowing steps in generally are applicable to all OSs and any exception is specified.

1. Run Ally-Py REST server:

        python3.2 ./application.py
        (python3.2 application.py for win7/8)
        
   As a developer you can run the application from sources by running the following command:
        cd ..
        ./start-sources.sh
        (start-sources.bat for win7/8)


2. Log in to following URL in your browser using credentials `admin/a`:

        http://localhost:8080/content/lib/core/start.html

   And here is an embed example:

        http://localhost:8080/content/lib/livedesk-embed/index.html?theme=default&id=1
